[MUSIC]
>> Brian Lonsdorf: We'll
go over these pretty quick.
It's about the same as every single
thing else that we have been looking at.
But there are other functors out there.
We've seen null checks and IO, and
air handling with either.
We have EventStreams which could be,
you could translate,
a list,
an event you say add event listener.
You can't compose add event listener,
that doesn't do anything.
It's like run this function every time.
Well, run this function every
time this thing happens,
that sounds like a map to me.
What if I compose an EventStream
of every click on the screen,
then I can map over that.
It's just the same as add event listener,
run this function.
But I have an EventStream out of it,
and I can keep composing that.
So let's look how that works.
We use Bacon here, which is probably
the most popular except for
RxJS, works similarly anyway,
different names.
Bacon just has it's own weird API
to get click events and what not.
That's one way to do it.
This way is kinda neat,
cuz I don't have to get the element first.
I can just say get all
the clicks on the document.
And then we just say, yeah, hey,
anytime there's a click on the document,
return me the ID with
the pound in front of it.
So I get an EventStream of strings.
Now, that top line where we actually
map the turning it into an ID,
that would be the same
as add event listener,
document click,
run this function, make an ID.
But what we get with streams is a tangible
object just like we had with all
the other functors that we can compose and
map over.
So now we have this
EventStream of strings,
cuz it transformed those clicks into IDs.
And it's all lazy, nothing happens until
we call onValue down at the bottom,
which kicks off a subscription,
really starts listening, and
we'll run that for
every time that happens.
Let's look at another example.
So just like we're returning,
we're mapping those things into IDs,
now we're actually running
query selectors on it.
We can map again, right?
Cuz it's still just an EventStream.
That's what the _s is
supposed to kind of denote.
So we've got this EventStream of IDs
coming through, and we can find them.
Now we've got an EventStream of elements.
So whenever you click something,
I get a element coming through.
And down at the bottom,
I subscribe to it with onValue, and
I'll just alert the innerHTML
of the element.
And that's pretty neat.
Notice that I could have just mapped
once and got the ID selector.
But I'm mapping twice.
It's like a composition, right?
We talked about that a little bit map,
and map.
And map is like a kind of
composition over functors.
And you can kind of choose
which way to do it, but
just know that every time you map over it,
you get a new EventStream.
And here's kind of a crazier example,
this is the last one I'll show
before we go on to the next.
But maybe there's one more, yeah.
The point of this one is to show that I
can keep mapping over this EventStream,
and it just keeps
transforming the EventStream.
So we've got these hovers, right?
And I've got a stream of hovers,
and we'll get their IDs, and
we'll turn it into query selectors
just like we did in the other example.
And then we're gonna
actually get their post ID
from the elements, and
then we'll get the API call.
And none of it happens.
It's all totally pure.
So, you can you do crazy stuff like that.
It's kind of the reactive FRP
stuff everybody's talking about.
All this stuff is kind of wired together
that whenever some hover happens,
the rest of it kicks off.
Except nothing happens,
until I call onValue.
>> Speaker 2: Hey, Brian.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: Yo?
>> Speaker 2: There was
a question in chat.
What is this Bacon library that
has this from event target?
>> Brian Lonsdorf: It's just
an EventStream library.
There's RxJS, Bacon.
There's bunch of libraries out there that
you can look up that have these things.
>> Speaker 2: It's
basically event delegation,
and all of the events
roll up into a stream.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: Yeah,
but it's a object, so
you can do crazy stuff-
>> Speaker 3: [CROSSTALK] Map over every
event on the page that's
within the document.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: That's right, and we'll
be going over some of the libraries, and
you'll be able to take the GitHub code and
actually look at all these examples, and
all the stuff.
So, don't get too hung up on where
is that, I need that right now.
Well, you'll get it.
It's cool.
[LAUGH] So, yeah,
notice I snuck a little future in there.
We're about to talk about that.
So we get the ProductById.
The thing that I thought was important
to show was that this whole app won't
run until a hover happens,
and I finally subscribe.
Well, I just say alert, so
it's gonna alert whatever post or
product comes through or whatever.
All right, moving on, we're gonna do
examples of EventStreams and futures in
a minute, and it's gonna feel exactly
like the other functors, so no big deal.
I'll just do it them cuz we gotta hurry,
sorry.
So we have this future
of an eventual value.
This is just like a promise,
but it's lazy.
So it's just like kinda IO in that way.
It's got IO rolled into it, cuz when
are you going to get some future value and
it's not gonna be IO?
Like you're gonna read a file,
make an API call,
I guess there's one case where you
have maybe a long running calculation.
But nine times out of ten,
it's a future value that
will be some side effect and it'll come
back eventually with a value, right?
So just like EventStreams, just like IOs,
these things build up computations,
and they don't run until you kick
it off with this fork method.
So let's look at that.
So if I do a http.get of posts,
that'll return me a future.
And then we'll just map makeHtml
with the post from the future.
[LAUGH] So this is the alternative
to a callback, and
promises work the exact same way.
If this returned a promise, I could map
make Html over the value inside of that.
So it's just like then on a promise.
The idea is that we map this
function over the eventual result.
Now, this fork thing is
where it gets weird.
The whole app is gonna look
like this stuff above here.
But the very end of the line is gonna have
this fork of where you are either gonna
have an error, or whatever the result
of this makeHtml, which is the page.
That's an important concept
cuz futures will fail.
There's a good chance your
future is gonna fail,
whether it's an API call or reading a file
that might not be there, or whatever else.
So, they've kind of rolled IO and
either into this one type kind of,
where you're either gonna have
your error or your future value.
And it's all lazy, I have to call fork.
It's just like run IO.
I say like, now do it.
So let's look at the next one.
Here we've got our, whoops, same idea.
We're gonna get our post,
which is gonna return us a future.
And then,
we're gonna map(createPage) over it.
And we're gonna get the title of the post,
make some HTML, whatever,
keep mapping things, doing whatever.
And sure enough, down at the bottom,
we actually do some effect with it.
We're gonna put it on the page.
You can't just get the value now,
it's not gonna be there.
You have to map things over it and
eventually use it.
And that's an important
concept with any functor,
is that at the end of the line,
this is the impure code.
All this stuff on the that's your app, and
it's all pure, and it's all wonderful, and
you can just treat it like it's there.
Boom, you finally call it, and it's
either gonna blow up or not, all right?
>> Speaker 2: People are confused where
the future is, but that's http.get.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: Yes,
http.get is gonna return a future.
I didn't actually, explicitly,
make a future here, because it's
a little bit weird to look at.
And I will guarantee you nine times out
of ten, even if you're using promises or
whatever, the HTTP library,
or the read file, or
the whatever you're using, is gonna return
you a promise or a future, or whatever.
So you don't have to really be
making them all the time yourself.
So just know that this return to future,
so you have to map over it.
What else would we do?
[LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: They're wondering what what
is this http.get library,
where is that coming from?
>> Brian Lonsdorf: You guys,
it's not real.
[LAUGH]
>> Speaker 3: It's pseudo code,
[CROSSTALK] normally.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: Yeah, hang on tight,
we're gonna do the demo soon,
that's why I'm-
>> Speaker 3: [CROSSTALK] Sorry
>> Brian Lonsdorf: Yeah, that's why
I'm running through this really quickly,
it's cuz we're gonna go use the demo, and
you'll see a real future and a real HTTP.
And here, in the jsbin right here,
I'm just gonna fake it with a set timeout,
but you can go look at that.
I just wanted to point out this last one,
readFile.
If you're in Node, this stuff is awesome.
If you're in Node, everything is
asynchronous all the time, and
it's a pain in the butt.
And this stuff where you're saying,
hey, read the file and
then map over it makes it so
much simpler than this callback hell.
This solves that for you.
And you can do a lot more
than just combine them.
And they adhere to the functor and
we'll see monoid, implicative, and
monad interface as well.
So you can do all sorts of
crazy stuff with these things.
>> Speaker 3: Isn't in Node there an easy
utility that you can wrap around native
functions and get back a new
function that returns the functor?
>> Brian Lonsdorf: Oftentimes,
promise libraries give you that.
You could probably do
the same thing with futures.
The difference between the promise and
the future is the promise,
it's like you have to run it at the end.
And that's this fork, error function,
or a success function.